= rbczmq - binding for the high level ZeroMQ C API

(c) 2011 Lourens Naudé (methodmissing), with API guidance from the czmq (http://czmq.zeromq.org/) project.

  http://github.com/methodmissing/rbczmq

==== NOT YET PRODUCTION READY, BUT ALMOST

== About ZeroMQ

In a nutshell, ZeroMQ is a hybrid networking library / concurrency framework. I quote the ØMQ Guide (http://zguide.zeromq.org/page:all) :

"ØMQ (ZeroMQ, 0MQ, zmq) looks like an embeddable networking library but acts like a concurrency framework. It gives you sockets that carry whole messages across various transports like in-process, inter-process, TCP, and multicast. You can connect sockets N-to-N with patterns like fanout, pub-sub, task distribution, and request-reply. It's fast enough to be the fabric for clustered products. Its asynchronous I/O model gives you scalable multicore applications, built as asynchronous message-processing tasks. It has a score of language APIs and runs on most operating systems. ØMQ is from iMatix and is LGPL open source."

== Another ZeroMQ extension ?

This extension bundles both ZeroMQ (libzmq, http://www.zeromq.org/) and CZMQ (libczmq, http://czmq.zeromq.org/) and as such have no third party dependencies other than a Ruby distribution and a C compiler. My goals for this project were :

* Access to a powerful messaging technology without having to install a bunch of dependencies
* A stable and mostly version agnostic (2.x and 3.x series) API
* Leverage and build upon a mature and maintained client (CZMQ)
* Target Ruby distributions with a stable and comprehensive C API (MRI, Rubinius, JRuby is work in progress)
* Support for running sockets in Threads - both green and native threads should be supported and preempt properly
  with edge-triggered multiplexing from libzmq.
* Integrate with the Garbage Collector in a predictable way. CZMQ and the ZeroMQ framework is very fast and can allocate
  an enormous amount of objects in no time when using the Frame, Message and String wrappers. Resources such as socket
  connections should be cleaned up when objects are finalized as well.
* Expose Message envelopes and Frames to developers as well to allow for higher level protocols and constructs.
* Enforce well known best practices such as restricting socket interactions to within the thread the socket was created in etc.

== Performance

ZeroMQ can have higher throughput than TCP in most cases by using a message batching technique. Please have a look through the Performance section in the ZeroMQ FAQ (http://www.zeromq.org/area:faq#toc2) for further implementation details.

Some notes about these benchmarks :

* Messages go through the full network stack on localhost (TCP/IP transport)
* The sender and receiver endpoints are Ruby processes which coerce transferred data to native String objects
  on both ends.
* There's thus a definite method dispatch cost in addition to intermittent pauses from the Garbage Collector
* It's still plenty fast for most soft real-time applications and we're able to push in excess of 1 gigabits/s with the 1024 byte payloads. A language with automatic memory management cannot easily comply to hard real-time guarantees anyways.

=== TCP/IP loopback, 100k messages, 100 byte payloads

    Lourenss-MacBook-Air:rbczmq lourens$ MSG_COUNT=100000 MSG_SIZE=100 ruby perf/pair.rb
    Local pids: 2042
    Remote pid: 2043
    Sent 100000 messages in 0.3933s ...
    [2043] Memory used before: 1128kb
    [2043] Memory used after: 3012kb
    [2042] Memory used before: 1120kb
    ====== [2042] transfer stats ======
    message encoding: string
    message size: 100 [B]
    message count: 100000
    mean throughput: 227978 [msg/s]
    mean throughput: 182.383 [Mb/s]
    [2042] Memory used after: 22432kb

=== TCP/IP loopback, 100k messages, 1024 byte payloads

    Lourenss-MacBook-Air:rbczmq lourens$ MSG_COUNT=100000 MSG_SIZE=1024 ruby perf/pair.rb
    Local pids: 2027
    Remote pid: 2028
    Sent 100000 messages in 0.641198s ...
    [2028] Memory used before: 1120kb
    [2028] Memory used after: 12776kb
    [2027] Memory used before: 1144kb
    ====== [2027] transfer stats ======
    message encoding: string
    message size: 1024 [B]
    message count: 100000
    mean throughput: 160756 [msg/s]
    mean throughput: 1316.919 [Mb/s]
    [2027] Memory used after: 189004kb

=== TCP/IP loopback, 100k messages, 2048 byte payloads

    Lourenss-MacBook-Air:rbczmq lourens$ MSG_COUNT=100000 MSG_SIZE=2048 ruby perf/pair.rb
    Local pids: 2034
    Remote pid: 2035
    Sent 100000 messages in 0.94703s ...
    [2035] Memory used before: 1140kb
    [2035] Memory used after: 7212kb
    [2034] Memory used before: 1128kb
    ====== [2034] transfer stats ======
    message encoding: string
    message size: 2048 [B]
    message count: 100000
    mean throughput: 123506 [msg/s]
    mean throughput: 2023.528 [Mb/s]
    [2034] Memory used after: 277712kb

Have a play around with the performance runner and other socket pairs as well - https://github.com/methodmissing/rbczmq/tree/master/perf

== Usage

As a first step I'd highly recommend you read (and reread) through the zguide (http://zguide.zeromq.org/page:all) as understanding the supported messaging patterns and topologies is fundamental to getting the most from this binding. 
Here's a few basic examples. Please refer to documentation (http://methodmissing.github.com/rbczmq/) and test cases (https://github.com/methodmissing/rbczmq/tree/master/test) for detailed usage information.

=== Basic send / receive, in process transport

    ctx = ZMQ::Context.new
    rep = ctx.socket(:PAIR)
    port = rep.bind("inproc://send.receive")
    req = ctx.socket(:PAIR)
    req.connect("inproc://send.receive")
    req.send("ping") # true
    rep.recv # "ping"

    ctx.destroy

=== Fair-queued work distribution to a set of worker threads

    ctx = ZMQ::Context.new
    push = ctx.bind(:PUSH, "inproc://push-pull-distribution.test")
    threads = []
    5.times do
      threads << Thread.new do
        pull = ctx.connect(:PULL, "inproc://push-pull-distribution.test")
        msg = pull.recv
        pull.close
        msg
      end
    end

    sleep 0.5 # avoid "slow joiner" syndrome
    messages = %w(a b c d e f)
    messages.each do |m|
      push.send m
    end

    threads.each{|t| t.join }
    threads.all?{|t| messages.include?(t.value) } # true

    ctx.destroy

=== Async request / reply routing

    ctx = ZMQ::Context.new
    router = ctx.bind(:ROUTER, "inproc://routing-flow.test")
    dealer = ctx.socket(:DEALER)
    dealer.identity = "xyz"
    dealer.connect("inproc://routing-flow.test")

    router.sendm("xyz")
    router.send("request")
    dealer.recv # "request"

    dealer.send("reply")
    router.recv # "xyz"
    router.recv # "reply"

    ctx.destroy

=== Send / receive frames

    ctx = ZMQ::Context.new
    rep = ctx.socket(:PAIR)
    rep.bind("inproc://frames.test")
    req = ctx.socket(:PAIR)
    req.connect("inproc://frames.test")
    ping = ZMQ::Frame("ping")
    req.send_frame(ping) # true
    rep.recv_frame # ZMQ::Frame("ping")
    rep.send_frame(ZMQ::Frame("pong")) # true
    req.recv_frame # ZMQ::Frame("pong")
    rep.send_frame(ZMQ::Frame("pong")) # true
    req.recv_frame_nonblock # nil
    sleep 0.3
    req.recv_frame_nonblock # ZMQ::Frame("pong")

    ctx.destroy

=== Send / receive messages

    ctx = ZMQ::Context.new
    rep = ctx.socket(:PAIR)
    rep.bind("inproc://messages.test")
    req = ctx.socket(:PAIR)
    req.connect("inproc://messages.test")

    msg = ZMQ::Message.new
    msg.push ZMQ::Frame("header")
    msg.push ZMQ::Frame("body")

    req.send_message(msg) # nil

    recvd_msg = rep.recv_message
    recvd_msg.class # ZMQ::Message
    recvd_msg.pop # ZMQ::Frame("header")
    recvd_msg.pop # ZMQ::Frame("body")

    ctx.destroy

== Resources

* ZeroMQ - http://www.zeromq.org/community
* The ØMQ Reference Manual - http://api.zeromq.org/
* The ØMQ FAQ - http://www.zeromq.org/area:faq
* Whitepapers - http://www.zeromq.org/area:whitepapers
* The ØMQ Guide - http://zguide.zeromq.org/page:all
* CZMQ - http://czmq.zeromq.org/
* Recent presentation on data transfer by the author of this binding - http://www.slideshare.net/methodmissing/sapo-codebits-2011

== Requirements

* A POSIX compliant OS, known to work well on Linux, BSD variants and Mac OS X
* Ruby MRI 1.8, 1.9 or Rubinius (JRuby capi support forthcoming)
* A C compiler

== Installation

Rubygems installation

    gem install rbczmq

Building from source

    git clone git@github.com:methodmissing/rbczmq.git
    rake

Running tests

    rake test

== TODO

* ZMQ::Message#save && ZMQ::Message.load
* ZMQ::Socket#handler = x. Assert handler interface here instead ???
* Callback handler for ZMQ::Socket useful beyond just ZMQ::Loop ?
* Optimize zloop handler callbacks (perftools)
* OS X leaks utility - http://developer.apple.com/library/mac/#documentation/Darwin/Reference/ManPages/man1/leaks.1.html
* Handle GC issue with timers in loop callbacks
* czmq send methods aren't non-blocking by default
* Catch EFSM for REQ/REP pairs and raise in a format better suited for the user
* Enforce socket timeouts
* Look into handling signals properly
* ZMQ.poll implementation
* Revisit the ZMQ::Loop API
* Restrict pair sockets to inproc transport only
* Revisit JRuby C API support
* Push gem out to rubygems.org
* RDOC fail on mixed C and Ruby source files that document that same constants
* GC guards to prevent recycling objects being sent / received.
* uuid-dev package dependency - look into a vendored package for this

== Contact, feedback and bugs

This project is still work in progress and I'm looking for guidance on API design, use cases and any outlier experiences. Please log bugs and suggestions at https://github.com/methodmissing/rbczmq/issues
